# Association-Mining-Rule-Using-Apriori-Algorithm
# The goal of association mining rule is to identify relationships between items in a dataset that occur frequently together
# This can increase sales. For example, it is likely that if a customer buys Milk and bread he/she also buys Butter. So the association rule is (‘milk’, ‘bread’) => ‘butter’. So, the seller can suggest the customer buy butter if he/she buys Milk and Bread.
# The association rule is then applied to three sets of online retail data namely Portugal_online_retail, Sweden_online_retail and UK_online_retail dataset to separately identify the relationship between each of the datasets and the items/variables in the dataset that occur frequently together.
# The Portugal_online_retail dataset is named Portugal in the code and contains 58 rows and 714 columns. InvoiceNo column contains the data type that is not required. Hence, it is dropped. The Apriori algorithm is applied using 70%, 80% and 90% confidence levels to determine the association rules of the items 70% confidence level is best with the top three association rules as follows: 
# Firstly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (SCANDINAVIAN PAISLEY PICNIC BAG, JUMBO SHOPPE) there is 100% confidence the consequents (LUNCH BAG DOILEY PATTERN, LUNCH BAG RED RETRO..) will be purchased at lift of 19.3 and consequent support of 0.05 Secondly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (CHARLOTTE BAG SUKI DESIGN, LUNCH BAG PINK POL..) there is 100% confidence the consequents (LUNCH BAG SUKI DESIGN..) will be purchased at lift of 7.25 with high consequent support of 0.138. Thirdly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (RED RETROSPOT CHARLOTTE BAG, LUNCH BAG SPACEB..) there is 100% confidence the consequents (JUMBO SHOPPER VINTAGE RED PAISLEY, JUMBO BAG..) will be purchased at lift of 9.67 with consequent support of 0.1. 
# Sweden_online_retail dataset is named Sweden and contains 36 rows and 262 columns. InvoiceNo column is also dropped. The Apriori algorithm is then applied using 70%, 80% and 90% confidence levels to determine the association rules of the items Both 80% and 90% confidence levels are the best with the same top three association rules below: 
# Firstly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (PACK OF 72 SKULL CAKE CASES) there is 100% confidence the consequents (12 PENCILS SMALL TUBE SKULL) will be purchased at lift of 18 and consequents support of 0.05. Secondly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (VINTAGE HEADS AND TAILS CARD GAME, MINI PAINT..) there is 100% confidence the consequents (PACK OF 60 SPACEBOY CAKE CASES) will be purchased at lift of 9 with consequents support of 0.1. Thirdly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (VINTAGE HEADS AND TAILS CARD GAME, PACK OF 60..) there is 100% confidence the consequents (MINI PAINT SET VINTAGE) will be purchased at lift of 6 with consequents support of 0.167. 
# UK_online_retail dataset is named UK and contains 18,667 rows and 4176 columns. 5,000 is randomly selected from the UK data and named dataset (The whole data was too heavy for my system). InvoiceNo column is also dropped. The Apriori algorithm is applied using 60%, 70% and80% confidence levels to determine the association rules of the items, 80% confidence level is best with top three association rules as follows:
# Firstly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (PINK REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER) there is 86% confidence the consequents (GREEN REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER) will be purchased at lift of 16 and consequents support of 0.05. Secondly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (GREEN REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER, PINK REGENCY...) there is 85%confidence the consequents (ROSES REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER) will be purchased at lift of 15 and consequents support of 0.05. Thirdly, if a customer purchases the antecedents (PINK REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER) there is 80% confidence the consequents (ROSES REGENCY TEACUP AND SAUCER) will be purchased at lift of 15 and consequents support of 0.05.

